README.md, before:

﻿# Intensity Project

## Dependencies
* Download Python 3.9.1+ from [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
* Install [NumPy](https://numpy.org/), [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/), and the Python Image Library via [Pillow fork](https://pypi.org/project/Pillow/). This can be done with `pip` (the Python package manager installed with Python) by typing these commands in a terminal window:
    ```
    pip install numpy
    pip install pandas
    pip install pillow
    ```

## How to Use
Once you have downloaded `intensity.py`. Navigate to its directory in a terminal. Then, type:
```
python intensity.py -h
```
So that you can see help information on what parameters to use and how to use them.

To ensure that the images you will be passing in are readable by `PIL`, open a terminal and run the following command:
```
python -m PIL
```
Make sure that the file types you are interested in have `open` listed right of `Features:` in the command's displayed output. For example, BMP, JPEG, PNG, and TIFF file formats all have this property.

You can also automate multiple commands (and to make editing parameters easier) by running a batch file if you're on Windows. `experiments.bat` is an example.

For more information on the code, you can download and view `intensity.html` for documentation in a browser.

To receive updates more smoothly, you can install `git` and clone the repository.

## Built With

* [Python 3.9.1](https://www.python.org/downloads/) - Python version. View the list of versions on the website.
* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - Local IDE.
* [pdoc3](https://pdoc3.github.io/pdoc/) - documentation package, one of [many](https://wiki.python.org/moin/DocumentationTools).

## Authors

* **Chami Lamelas** - *Developer* - 
[my personal GitHub](https://github.com/ChamiLamelas)

## Acknowledgments

* [gitignore](https://github.com/github/gitignore/blob/master/Python.gitignore) - gitignore file for Python files

Commit message:

add install check instructions to readme

README.md, after:

﻿# Intensity Project

## Dependencies
* Download Python 3.9.1+ from [here](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
* Install [NumPy](https://numpy.org/), [Pandas](https://pandas.pydata.org/), and the Python Image Library via [Pillow fork](https://pypi.org/project/Pillow/). This can be done with `pip` (the Python package manager installed with Python) by typing these commands in a terminal window:
    ```
    pip install numpy
    pip install pandas
    pip install pillow
    ```
    You can check that everything has been installed properly, with the following command:
    ```
    pip list
    ```
    Make sure that entries for `numpy`, `pandas`, and `Pillow` appear there.

## How to Use
Once you have downloaded `intensity.py`. Navigate to its directory in a terminal. Then, type:
```
python intensity.py -h
```
So that you can see help information on what parameters to use and how to use them.

To ensure that the images you will be passing in are readable by `PIL`, open a terminal and run the following command:
```
python -m PIL
```
Make sure that the file types you are interested in have `open` listed right of `Features:` in the command's displayed output. For example, BMP, JPEG, PNG, and TIFF file formats all have this property.

You can also automate multiple commands (and to make editing parameters easier) by running a batch file if you're on Windows. `experiments.bat` is an example.

For more information on the code, you can download and view `intensity.html` for documentation in a browser.

To receive updates more smoothly, you can install `git` and clone the repository.

## Built With

* [Python 3.9.1](https://www.python.org/downloads/) - Python version. View the list of versions on the website.
* [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) - Local IDE.
* [pdoc3](https://pdoc3.github.io/pdoc/) - documentation package, one of [many](https://wiki.python.org/moin/DocumentationTools).

## Authors

* **Chami Lamelas** - *Developer* - 
[my personal GitHub](https://github.com/ChamiLamelas)

## Acknowledgments

* [gitignore](https://github.com/github/gitignore/blob/master/Python.gitignore) - gitignore file for Python files
